The next thing that you and
I are gonna do,
this application uses React Query,
we've been doing that for a while.
There's a thing specifically
called React Toolkit Query,
which is inspired by React Query.
I'm gonna say if you're
doing Redux Toolkit,
just go full into it and
also use React Toolkit Query.
So we're going to refactor
our React Toolkit,
sorry, React Query to Redux Toolkit Query.
So first things first, let's make a new
file here and call it petApiService.js.
Here, you're going to import createApi and
fetchBaseQuery from Redux Toolkit.
You're going to export const
petApi is assigned createApi.
If you give it a reducer path,
we're just going to call it petApi.
It uses all these names internally, so
that I can keep track on things and
cache them correctly.
It will be useful once we get
into the Redux dev tool, so
you'll actually be able to follow
along of where things are going.
So it's good to give this a good name,
a descriptive name.
Okay, the baseQuery is going
to be a fetchBaseQuery.
The baseUrl is going to be
http://pets-v2.dev-apis.com.
And then you're gonna even some endpoints.
So if you have a bunch of things
that are based off of one baseQuery,
as in one baseUrl, you just make
those into individual endpoints.
And then if you have two different
API's that you're calling,
you'll make another service, right?
So in this particular case, we only
have one service, one baseUrl here, so
we're just gonna have one service.
But imagine if we have our API endpoint,
and we also have the Spotify endpoint,
right?
We would have two different API
services that we would create.
Okay, and then here,
I'm just gonna describe all of
the endpoints that I'm about to hit.
So this is a function that takes in
a builder and it returns an object.
We're gonna make one called getPet,
which is going to be builder.query,
Another object here, and
the query is going to
be id, And it returns an object.
url: "pets", right, cuz it's the name
of the actual path to the petApi, that is.
And the params, it just takes in the id.
So just to be super clear
of what's happening here,
if I call the getPet API,
it's going to go to this baseUrl,
slash whatever the hell is here,
pets with the query string of the id,
id equals id.
Little indirection there,
I know this is pretty dense,
but that's what's happening here.
And then here,
I can give it a transform response.
So this is actually the raw
response back from the API.
All I wanna store and
use is the response.pets(0).
So if I'm requesting a specific pet,
this is going to take the entire response
that it gets back from the API and
it's gonna give me back just
the first pet, that pet array.
So then now I don't have to do all of the,
if this exists, give me this
kind of logic, it's gonna be the pet,
you don't have to worry too much about it.
Okay, export default or
export const rather,
(useGetPetQuery) = petApi.
Yeah, Redux toolkit/query/react.
Sorry, you have to give
it a little bit more
specific what you're looking for there.
All right,
this one was weird to me as well.
Where the hell does
useGetPetQuery come from?
It's generated by this createApi method,
right?
So it takes the name of my query here,
which is getPet, and
then it puts use in the front,
cuz this is a hook, right?
It makes a custom hook for you.
It puts whatever you call this.
So if I call this use getPetLol, right,
I'd have to put getPetLol there, right?
That's how the name is getting there.
And then query,
it attaches that on the end for you, so
that you know that it's a query.
Okay, is that sufficiently weird for you?
It's sufficiently weird for
me, so here we are.
Okay, let's go put this
into the store now.
All right, so
two things we need to put in here.
One, we're gonna put in the pet,
petAPI from here,
[petApi.reducerPath]:petApi.reducer.
Why this?
The answer is, the docs told me to, so I'm
showing you what the docs told me to do.
But really what they're trying to do here,
if we go back to our,
What did I call it?
PetApi service, yeah, petApiService,
it's just this, right?
So it's actually calling it petApi,
it's just making sure that it's
internally consistent, right?
So this petApi is exactly
what it's putting in store,
in fact to be incredibly clear,
store, and this is petApiService.
So we have petApi,
we have the reducer path here, right?
This is just saying, hey,
make sure that whatever this is putting
out from here is the same over here.
It's being very explicit about that.
Could you put petApi right here?
Yeah, I mean, you could, it's
literally exactly what this is, right?
But it's nice to have it
guarantee be consistent,
cuz now if I decide later that,
yeah, you know what,
I wanted to call this petApiVerCool,
right,
I don't have to go change it in two
places, it just changes automatically.
Okay, make sense?
One more thing here.
This is kind of an optional step,
kind of not.
We're gonna give it a middleware,
and I can get rid of this, so
that you can see everything,
middleware:(getDefault, Middleware).
This is gonna be a function, and
we just want it to return implicitly get.
DefaultMiddleware, call that
function .concat(petApi.middleware)
So what's going on with this?
Redux has this concept of
what's called a middleware,
which is basically,
I dispatch an action to the store.
I can intercept that in a middleware and
do something about it.
You can imagine maybe I'm
dispatching it in one object and
I wanna transform it
into a different object.
A middleware could do that.
You can introduce things like you
want your Redux to be able to handle
observables, right?
So you can catch an observable,
handle it, and
then from there,
dispatch an action to the store.
We're not gonna do anything like that,
in general,
I gonna tell you to not really
worry too much about middlewares.
The only thing that might be kind of
useful is if you want to log what was
happening to your Redux to maybe a server,
you could do that through a middleware.
Kind of weird, but you could do it.
What are we doing here?
We are putting, petApi has this thing
called a middleware, into our Redux here.
What's cool about that is now it's
going to cache everything for us.
So you know how React Query
was caching everything for
us as we were making requests.
This is allowing that to happen
here with React toolkit.
But you have to put
the middleware in here.
If I don't put this middleware in here,
all of this stuff will work, but
I don't think any of the caching will.
Actually, I don't think that's true.
I think the caching actually
still does work, but
there's other things like retries.
It augments the ability of React Toolkit.
In other words, just do it [LAUGH].
Okay, we're really close to
getting this to work now.
It's all ready, we just need to go use it.
So please head over to Details.jsx.
Remove the useQuery import up here.
Remove fetchPet, And
we're going to import the useGetPetQuery
from a petApi service.
We're going to delete this thing,
the results here.
And we're just gonna say const isLoading
data: pet = useGetPetQuery with the id
And where do I declare pet?
Down here.
And then you can drop
this line right here.
Okay, and then here where it says
results.isLoading, just delete that, so
it just uses the isLoading from that.
All right, that is it.
So now, this is going to make requests
through our petApi service using RTK.
When I say RTK, Redux Toolkit, right, RTK.
That's what everyone calls it.
You'll see it always written like that,
RTK, Redux Toolkit.
We're using RTK to call that petApi
service, which will get us our pet for us.
Okay, so looks like we broke.
What happened?
inject.endpoints is not a function.
createApi, fetchBaseQuery,
export const petApi, createApi.
reducerPath looks good.
baseQuery: fetchBaseQuery, baseUrL,
yeah, that looks all good to me.
endPoints, I think this is a lowercase p.
That was it.
Okay, sorry, lowercase p,
line six here, endpoints.
Okay, any questions about that?
Can you spell?
Apparently I cannot.
Same sort of thing here, if I search for
bird, it'll go get that.
But if I go back and search for blank,
now, it's not gonna load, it's just gonna
instantly give it back to me, cuz it's
gonna be cached directly in my Redux.
Cool, so what's nice now is,
if I go back to my petApiService here,
adding more endpoints to
this is very simple, right?
Cuz I already have all of
the base machinery in place.
All I have to do if I wanted to add
another one is just say getBreeds, And
basically do the exact same
pattern over again, builder.
GetBreeds here, sorry,
builder.query, give it an object.
Query: animal,
And the url is going to be breeds.
And the params is going to be animal,
like that.
And then you're gonna give it
a transform response as well,
and that is going to be response
is back to response dot breeds.
Boom, now we have
a getBreeds function here.
And here,
you just put down here useGetBreedsQuery.
How easy was that to create a whole
custom hook for one API response?
Pretty compelling.
We'll do search, Builder.query.
So the query, I'm gonna to do
this a little bit different.
We're actually gonna take
an entire function here, so query,
and that's gonna be a function that
takes in .
Like I said, actually,
it's the same, never mind.
And that's gonna give back url of pets,
params of,
.
And then the transform response of
response back to response.pets.
And then now we can say,
useSearchQuery.
And there you go.
Now, we have our entire API
here just described like this.
So let's go to useBreedList.
We can get rid of this, we can get
rid of everything here at the top.
And you're going to import useGetBreeds,
Query.
There you go.
And get rid of that.
And delete this line, const results,
const { data: breeds,
IsLoading } = useGetBreedsQuery animal,
And I have a skip if you have no animal,
right?
So if someone is trying to call
useBreedList without an animal,
you just wanna skip the query altogether,
right?
So you can give it this skip parameter,
Which allows you to say, hey,
if you got no animal back,
then don't make any requests to the API.
You don't need to,
which I think is pretty cool as well.
Then you just say, if no animal return,
It'll say empty array here and loaded.
Otherwise, return Breeds.
And then, You'd probably wanna have
more robust statuses, but for now, we're
just gonna say, if it's loading, loading,
otherwise loaded, Right?
More or less the same as what we
had before using React Query, but
now we're using our API service.
So let's go make sure that this
works the way that we want it to.
And if I say there's no animal there,
but if I put dog,
we get this back, that looks good.
If I go to cat, that's the back.
And then if I go back to dog,
everything works, cool.
One more,
let's go do SearchParams.jsx, and
we are going to,
Get rid of useQuery up here.
We're going to import useSearchQuery,
and then the useQuery call down here.
We're just gonna say, const data: pets
= useSearchQuery with SearchParams.
That's it, that's all we need to do here.
And we can get rid of that.
And get rid of all my
console logging as well.
I mean, that got even simpler, right?
So I I don't know, this is probably the
most compelling part about Redux toolkit.
These search custom hooks
that it generates for
you are really quite nice to use.
What is this mad about?
Is it mad about something?
Yeah, we don't need fetchSearch anymore.
All right, so, what did we do now?
>> You have to define pets.
You have to reassign pets.
>> Yeah.
If there's nothing there,
you have to say, pets = pets.
Cuz you need it to be
an empty array if it's, So
all I did here is I changed const to let.
And then if pets is an empty array,
Or if pets doesn't exist,
then make it an empty array because this
always assumes that they're down here,
that this is gonna be empty array.